README.md, before:

# Harvest Sheet

This project provides a script to convert Harvest time-tracking data to CSV, with optional Google Sheets upload. The script supports multiple users and scheduling via cron. The project uses Buildah for container builds and NixOS for development.

---

## Table of Contents
- [General Use](#general-use)
  - [Harvest Sheet Workflow](#harvest-sheet-workflow)
- [Usage Guide: Harvest Sheet Docker Image](#usage-guide-harvest-sheet-docker-image)
  - [Quick Start: One-off Run](#quick-start-one-off-run)
  - [Automated Runs with Docker Compose](#automated-runs-with-docker-compose)
  - [Running on a Schedule (Cron)](#running-on-a-schedule-cron)
  - [Multi-User Support](#multi-user-support)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Advanced: Buildah & NixOS](#advanced-buildah--nixos)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [How to Obtain API Credentials](#how-to-obtain-api-credentials)
  - [Harvest API Credentials](#harvest-api-credentials)
  - [Google Service Account Credentials (for Sheets Upload)](#google-service-account-credentials-for-sheets-upload)

---

## General Use

Harvest Sheet automatically extracts time entries from Harvest and can upload them to Google Sheets. It supports multiple users with different API credentials and Google Sheets destinations.

### Harvest Sheet Workflow

The application follows this workflow:

1. Retrieves time entries from Harvest API for the specified date range (defaults to last week)
2. Validates and transforms the data using Pydantic models
3. Converts the data to CSV format with pandas
4. Optionally uploads the CSV to Google Sheets
5. When running via cron, processes all users found in the environment variables

### Features

- **Full Harvest API Integration**: Access to all standard and advanced time entry fields
- **Data Validation**: Uses Pydantic to ensure data integrity
- **Flexible Output**: Option to include basic or advanced fields in exports 
- **Rich Console Output**: Enhanced terminal feedback with progress indicators
- **Multi-User Support**: Process time entries for multiple Harvest accounts
- **Automated Scheduling**: Built-in cron support for regular exports

- Converts time-tracking data to CSV
- Optionally uploads results to Google Sheets
- Supports both one-off and scheduled (cron) runs

> **Tip:** For most users, simply configure your `.env` file and run the container as shown below. For advanced usage, scheduling, and troubleshooting, see the detailed guide below.

---

## Usage Guide: Harvest Sheet Docker Image

This guide explains how to use the `ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest` image for both manual and scheduled (cron) runs, including advanced options and troubleshooting.

### Quick Start: One-off Run

You can run the image directly to fetch and convert Harvest data to CSV (and optionally upload to Google Sheets):

```sh
docker run --rm \
  --env-file .env \
  -v $(pwd)/output:/app/output \
  ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest
```
- Ensure your `.env` file is in the current directory.
- Output will be written to the `output` folder.

### Automated Runs with Docker Compose

You can also run the project using Docker Compose for easier management:

1. Make sure you have a `.env` file with your configuration in the project root.
2. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file in your project directory with the following content:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  harvest-sheet:
    image: ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest
    env_file:
      - .env
    volumes:
      - ./output:/app/output  # Optional: Mounts output directory
    restart: unless-stopped
```

This will start the service. Output files (if any) will be written to the `output` directory.

- To stop the service: `docker compose down`
- To apply updates after changes: `docker compose up`

### Running on a Schedule (Cron)

The Docker container comes with cron pre-configured to run the script on a regular schedule. The default schedule is defined in `crontab.txt`:

```
# Run the Harvest script at 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM every day
0 6,18 * * * cd /app && /app/cron_wrapper.sh >> /app/logs/cron.log 2>> /app/logs/cron.error.log
```

This configuration runs the script twice daily at 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM.

All jobs use the `/app/cron_wrapper.sh` script which:
1. Sets up logging with timestamps
2. Loads environment variables from `/app/.env`
3. Automatically detects all user prefixes in the environment
4. Processes each user's data with the appropriate environment variables
5. Generates detailed logs in the `/app/logs/` directory

The wrapper script uses Rich for enhanced terminal output and provides detailed progress information during execution.

#### To customize the schedule:
1. Edit `crontab.txt` before building or mounting it into the container:
   - To mount a custom crontab:
     ```yaml
     volumes:
       - ./my-crontab.txt:/app/crontab.txt:ro
     ```
2. The container starts cron automatically and tails `/app/cron.log`.
3. Logs are available in the `cron.log` file inside the container (or mount `/app/cron.log` to your host).

### Multi-User Support

The application supports multiple users with different Harvest accounts and Google Sheets destinations. This is implemented through user-specific environment variables with prefixes.

#### How Multi-User Support Works:

1. Each user's variables are prefixed with their name (e.g., `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`)
2. The `cron_wrapper.sh` script automatically detects all users with Harvest credentials defined
3. For each user, it sets the `USER_PREFIX` environment variable and runs the Python script
4. The Python script uses the prefix to load the correct credentials for each user

#### To Add a New User:

1. Add their environment variables to `.env` with an appropriate prefix:
   ```
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID=1234567
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN=your_token_here
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_AGENT=first.last@example.com
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_ID=7654321
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_CSV_OUTPUT_FILE=harvest_export_firstname_lastname.csv
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_ID=your_sheet_id
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME=FirstName LastName
   ```

2. No other configuration is needed - the wrapper script will automatically detect and process the new user

### Environment Variables

The application uses two types of environment variables:

#### 1. User-Specific Variables (with prefix)

Each user's variables are prefixed with their name (e.g., `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_`). The following variables are supported for each user:

- `[PREFIX]_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`: Harvest account ID for this user
- `[PREFIX]_HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN`: Personal access token
- `[PREFIX]_HARVEST_USER_AGENT`: User agent (usually your email)
- `[PREFIX]_HARVEST_USER_ID`: (Optional) Specific user ID to filter time entries
- `[PREFIX]_GOOGLE_SHEET_ID`: Google Sheet ID for upload
- `[PREFIX]_GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME`: Tab name within the Google Sheet

#### 2. Global Variables

- `GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID`: Google Service Account project ID
- `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID`: Private key ID
- `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY`: Private key (replace newlines with `\n`)
- `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL`: Service account email
- `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID`: Service account client ID
- `GOOGLE_SA_UNIVERSE_DOMAIN`: (Optional) API universe domain (default: googleapis.com)
- `GOOGLE_SHEET_ID`: Default Google Sheet ID (if not using user-specific)
- `GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME`: Default tab name (if not using user-specific)

#### Additional Configuration Variables

- `UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET`: Enable/disable Google Sheets upload (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `ENABLE_RAW_JSON`: Enable/disable raw JSON export (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS`: Include additional fields from Harvest API in CSV export (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `FROM_DATE`: Optional start date in YYYY-MM-DD format
- `TO_DATE`: Optional end date in YYYY-MM-DD format
- `TZ`: Set the timezone for the container (default: UTC)

See `.env.example` for a complete template with explanations.

### Advanced: Buildah & NixOS

- Use `buildah.sh` for custom builds or to build on NixOS.
- The script ensures cron, python, and all dependencies are installed, and registers the crontab.

### Troubleshooting

- **No output?** Check the logs: `docker logs <container>` or inspect the log files in `/app/logs/`. The script generates timestamped log files for each run.
- **Google Sheets upload fails?** Double-check your service account credentials and ensure the sheet is shared with the service account email. The script provides detailed error messages with Rich output.
- **Environment not loading?** Make sure `.env` is present and correctly formatted. Check user prefixes and required variables.
- **Cron jobs not running?** Verify the container's timezone with `TZ` environment variable if your jobs appear to run at unexpected times.
- **Data validation errors?** The script uses Pydantic models to validate API data - check the error messages for details on fields that failed validation.

---

## Advanced Field Output

The script supports exporting additional fields from the Harvest API beyond the standard ones. This is useful for detailed reporting, billing verification, and advanced time tracking analysis.

### Available Additional Fields

When the `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS` option is enabled, the following fields are added to the CSV output:

- **Rounded Hours**: Hours after rounding rules have been applied
- **Is Billed**: Whether the time entry has been billed on an invoice
- **Is Locked**: Whether the time entry is locked for editing
- **Started/Ended**: Start and end times for the entry (if available)
- **Created At/Updated At**: Timestamps for when the entry was created and last updated
- **Cost Rate**: The cost rate applied to the time entry (if available)

### Enabling Advanced Fields

To include these fields in your CSV exports:

1. Set `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS=1` in your `.env` file, or
2. Add `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS=1` to your environment variables

In a multi-user setup, this setting applies globally to all users processed in that run.

## Running Locally Without Docker

You can run the script directly on your local machine without Docker. This is useful for development, testing, or if you prefer not to use containers.

### Prerequisites

1. Python 3.9 or higher installed on your system
2. Required Python packages installed

### Installation

1. Clone the repository or download the source code
2. Install the required dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your configuration (see [Environment Variables](#environment-variables))

### Running the Script

Run the script directly with Python:

```bash
# Basic usage (will use last week as default date range)
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py

# Specify a date range
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --from-date 2025-05-01 --to-date 2025-05-15

# Specify a custom output file
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --output my_timesheet.csv

# Enable debug logging
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --debug

# Specify a user prefix (for multi-user setups)
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --user JOHN_DOE

# Save raw JSON output
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --json harvest_data.json
```

### Command-Line Arguments

- `--from-date`: Start date for time entries (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `--to-date`: End date for time entries (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `--output`: Custom output file path for the CSV
- `--json`: Save raw API response as JSON to the specified file
- `--user`: Override the user prefix for environment variables
- `--debug`: Enable debug logging

### Expected Output

When running successfully, the script will:

1. Display a header with the application name and version
2. Show user information and configuration details
3. Download time entries from Harvest with a progress indicator
4. Process and validate the data using Pydantic models
5. Write the processed data to a CSV file (in the `output/` subdirectory by default)
6. Optionally upload to Google Sheets if configured

### Output File Locations

By default, output files will be stored in the following locations:

- **CSV files**: `./output/harvest_export_[prefix].csv`
- **JSON files** (if enabled): `./output/harvest_export_[prefix].json`
- **Log files**: Created in the current directory or specified log directory

In a Docker environment, these paths would be inside the container at `/app/output/` and `/app/logs/` according to the container configuration.

All output is enhanced with Rich formatting for better readability in the terminal.

---

## How to Obtain API Credentials

### Harvest API Credentials
You will need the following for Harvest API access:
- `HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`
- `HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN`
- `HARVEST_USER_AGENT`

**Steps:**
1. Log in to your Harvest account at [https://id.getharvest.com/](https://id.getharvest.com/).
2. Go to **Settings** > **Developers** > **Personal Access Tokens**.
3. Click **Create New Personal Access Token**.
4. Copy your **Account ID** and **Personal Access Token**.
5. Set your **User Agent** to your email address or app name (e.g., `user@email.com`).
6. Add these values to your `.env` file:
   ```env
   HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID=your_account_id
   HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN=your_personal_access_token
   HARVEST_USER_AGENT=your_email_or_app
   ```

**Official Docs:** [Harvest API Authentication](https://help.getharvest.com/api-v2/authentication-api/authentication/authentication/)

### Google Service Account Credentials (for Sheets Upload)
To upload to Google Sheets, you **must** use a Google Cloud Service Account (not an API key or OAuth client ID). The Service Account provides secure, automated server-to-server access.

> **Note:** Do NOT use an "API key" or "OAuth client ID" for this workflow. You need a downloaded Service Account JSON file.

**Steps to obtain Service Account credentials:**
1. Go to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
2. Create a new project (or select an existing one).
3. Enable the **Google Sheets API** for your project (APIs & Services > Library > search for "Google Sheets API" > Enable).
4. Go to **APIs & Services > Credentials**.
5. Click **Create Credentials > Service account**.
6. Fill in the Service account details:
    - **Service account name**: Choose a descriptive name (e.g., `sheets-writer`).
    - **Description**: (Optional) e.g., "Writes data to Google Sheets from Harvest script".
    - Click **Create and Continue**.
7. Assign a role to the service account:
    - Recommended: **Editor** or **Writer** (to allow writing to Sheets).
    - Click **Continue** and then **Done**.
8. After creation, click on your new service account in the list to view its details.
9. Go to the **Keys** tab, click **Add Key > Create new key**, select **JSON**, and download the key file.
10. In the Service account details, find the **Email** field (e.g., `sheets-writer@your-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com`).
11. **Share your Google Sheet with this service account email:**
    - Open your Google Sheet in the browser.
    - Click the **Share** button.
    - Add the service account email as an editor (full access is usually required for writing).
    - Click **Send**.
12. Open the downloaded JSON key file and copy the following fields to your `.env` file:
    - `project_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID`
    - `private_key_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID`
    - `private_key` → `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY` (**replace all newlines with `\n` so it is a single line**)
    - `client_email` → `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL`
    - `client_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID`
    - Add your `GOOGLE_SHEET_ID` and `GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME` as well.
    - Set `UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET=1` to enable uploads.

    Example `.env` entries:
    ```env
    GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
    GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID=your_private_key_id
    GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
    GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_service_account_email
    GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
    GOOGLE_SHEET_ID=your_sheet_id
    GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME=your_tab_name
    UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET=1
    ```

Commit message:

docs: simplify environment variables and improve configuration examples

README.md, after:

# Harvest Sheet

This project provides a script to convert Harvest time-tracking data to CSV, with optional Google Sheets upload. The script supports multiple users and scheduling via cron. The project uses Buildah for container builds and NixOS for development.

---

## Table of Contents
- [General Use](#general-use)
  - [Harvest Sheet Workflow](#harvest-sheet-workflow)
- [Usage Guide: Harvest Sheet Docker Image](#usage-guide-harvest-sheet-docker-image)
  - [Quick Start: One-off Run](#quick-start-one-off-run)
  - [Automated Runs with Docker Compose](#automated-runs-with-docker-compose)
  - [Running on a Schedule (Cron)](#running-on-a-schedule-cron)
  - [Multi-User Support](#multi-user-support)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Advanced: Buildah & NixOS](#advanced-buildah--nixos)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [How to Obtain API Credentials](#how-to-obtain-api-credentials)
  - [Harvest API Credentials](#harvest-api-credentials)
  - [Google Service Account Credentials (for Sheets Upload)](#google-service-account-credentials-for-sheets-upload)

---

## General Use

Harvest Sheet automatically extracts time entries from Harvest and can upload them to Google Sheets. It supports multiple users with different API credentials and Google Sheets destinations.

### Harvest Sheet Workflow

The application follows this workflow:

1. Retrieves time entries from Harvest API for the specified date range (defaults to last week)
2. Validates and transforms the data using Pydantic models
3. Converts the data to CSV format with pandas
4. Optionally uploads the CSV to Google Sheets
5. When running via cron, processes all users found in the environment variables

### Features

- **Full Harvest API Integration**: Access to all standard and advanced time entry fields
- **Data Validation**: Uses Pydantic to ensure data integrity
- **Flexible Output**: Option to include basic or advanced fields in exports 
- **Rich Console Output**: Enhanced terminal feedback with progress indicators
- **Multi-User Support**: Process time entries for multiple Harvest accounts
- **Automated Scheduling**: Built-in cron support for regular exports

- Converts time-tracking data to CSV
- Optionally uploads results to Google Sheets
- Supports both one-off and scheduled (cron) runs

> **Tip:** For most users, simply configure your `.env` file and run the container as shown below. For advanced usage, scheduling, and troubleshooting, see the detailed guide below.

---

## Usage Guide: Harvest Sheet Docker Image

This guide explains how to use the `ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest` image for both manual and scheduled (cron) runs, including advanced options and troubleshooting.

### Quick Start: One-off Run

You can run the image directly to fetch and convert Harvest data to CSV (and optionally upload to Google Sheets):

```sh
docker run --rm \
  --env-file .env \
  -v $(pwd)/output:/app/output \
  ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest
```
- Ensure your `.env` file is in the current directory.
- Output will be written to the `output` folder.

### Automated Runs with Docker Compose

You can also run the project using Docker Compose for easier management:

1. Make sure you have a `.env` file with your configuration in the project root.
2. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file in your project directory with the following content:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  harvest-sheet:
    image: ghcr.io/wdiazux/harvest-sheet:latest
    env_file:
      - .env
    volumes:
      - ./output:/app/output  # Optional: Mounts output directory
    restart: unless-stopped
```

This will start the service. Output files (if any) will be written to the `output` directory.

- To stop the service: `docker compose down`
- To apply updates after changes: `docker compose up`

### Running on a Schedule (Cron)

The Docker container comes with cron pre-configured to run the script on a regular schedule. The default schedule is defined in `crontab.txt`:

```
# Run the Harvest script at 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM every day
0 6,18 * * * cd /app && /app/cron_wrapper.sh >> /app/logs/cron.log 2>> /app/logs/cron.error.log
```

This configuration runs the script twice daily at 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM.

All jobs use the `/app/cron_wrapper.sh` script which:
1. Sets up logging with timestamps
2. Loads environment variables from `/app/.env`
3. Automatically detects all user prefixes in the environment
4. Processes each user's data with the appropriate environment variables
5. Generates detailed logs in the `/app/logs/` directory

The wrapper script uses Rich for enhanced terminal output and provides detailed progress information during execution.

#### To customize the schedule:
1. Edit `crontab.txt` before building or mounting it into the container:
   - To mount a custom crontab:
     ```yaml
     volumes:
       - ./my-crontab.txt:/app/crontab.txt:ro
     ```
2. The container starts cron automatically and tails `/app/cron.log`.
3. Logs are available in the `cron.log` file inside the container (or mount `/app/cron.log` to your host).

### Multi-User Support

The application supports multiple users with different Harvest accounts and Google Sheets destinations. This is implemented through user-specific environment variables with prefixes.

#### How Multi-User Support Works:

1. Each user's variables are prefixed with their name (e.g., `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`)
2. The `cron_wrapper.sh` script automatically detects all users with Harvest credentials defined
3. For each user, it sets the `USER_PREFIX` environment variable and runs the Python script
4. The Python script uses the prefix to load the correct credentials for each user

#### To Add a New User:

1. Add their environment variables to `.env` with an appropriate prefix:
   ```
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID=1234567
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN=your_token_here
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_AGENT=first.last@example.com
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_ID=7654321
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_CSV_OUTPUT_FILE=harvest_export_firstname_lastname.csv
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_ID=your_sheet_id
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME=FirstName LastName
   ```

2. No other configuration is needed - the wrapper script will automatically detect and process the new user

### Environment Variables

The application uses two types of environment variables:

#### 1. User-Specific Variables (with prefix)

- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`: Harvest account ID
- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN`: Authentication token
- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_AGENT`: User agent (usually your email)
- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_ID`: (Optional) User ID for filtering entries by user
- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_ID`: Google Sheet ID for this user
- `FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME`: Tab name in the Google Sheet

#### 2. Global Variables

- `GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID`: Google Service Account project ID
- `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID`: Private key ID
- `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY`: Private key (replace newlines with `\n`)
- `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL`: Service account email
- `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID`: Service account client ID
- `UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET`: Enable/disable Google Sheets upload (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `ENABLE_RAW_JSON`: Enable/disable raw JSON export (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS`: Include additional fields from Harvest API in CSV export (1=enable, 0=disable)
- `FROM_DATE`: Optional start date in YYYY-MM-DD format
- `TO_DATE`: Optional end date in YYYY-MM-DD format
- `TZ`: Set the timezone for the container (default: UTC)

See `.env.example` for a complete template with explanations.

### Advanced: Buildah & NixOS

- Use `buildah.sh` for custom builds or to build on NixOS.
- The script ensures cron, python, and all dependencies are installed, and registers the crontab.

### Troubleshooting

- **No output?** Check the logs: `docker logs <container>` or inspect the log files in `/app/logs/`. The script generates timestamped log files for each run.
- **Google Sheets upload fails?** Double-check your service account credentials and ensure the sheet is shared with the service account email. The script provides detailed error messages with Rich output.
- **Environment not loading?** Make sure `.env` is present and correctly formatted. Check user prefixes and required variables.
- **Cron jobs not running?** Verify the container's timezone with `TZ` environment variable if your jobs appear to run at unexpected times.
- **Data validation errors?** The script uses Pydantic models to validate API data - check the error messages for details on fields that failed validation.

---

## Advanced Field Output

The script supports exporting additional fields from the Harvest API beyond the standard ones. This is useful for detailed reporting, billing verification, and advanced time tracking analysis.

### Available Additional Fields

When the `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS` option is enabled, the following fields are added to the CSV output:

- **Rounded Hours**: Hours after rounding rules have been applied
- **Is Billed**: Whether the time entry has been billed on an invoice
- **Is Locked**: Whether the time entry is locked for editing
- **Started/Ended**: Start and end times for the entry (if available)
- **Created At/Updated At**: Timestamps for when the entry was created and last updated
- **Cost Rate**: The cost rate applied to the time entry (if available)

### Enabling Raw JSON and Advanced Fields

#### Raw JSON Export
To save the raw JSON response from the Harvest API:

1. Set `ENABLE_RAW_JSON=1` in your `.env` file, or
2. Use the `--json` command-line argument when running the script

#### Advanced Fields
To include additional fields in your CSV exports:

1. Set `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS=1` in your `.env` file, or
2. Add `INCLUDE_ADVANCED_FIELDS=1` to your environment variables

In a multi-user setup, these settings apply globally to all users processed in that run.

## Running Locally Without Docker

You can run the script directly on your local machine without Docker. This is useful for development, testing, or if you prefer not to use containers.

### Prerequisites

1. Python 3.9 or higher installed on your system
2. Required Python packages installed

### Installation

1. Clone the repository or download the source code
2. Install the required dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your configuration (see [Environment Variables](#environment-variables))

### Running the Script

Run the script directly with Python:

```bash
# Basic usage (will use last week as default date range)
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py

# Specify a date range
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --from-date 2025-05-01 --to-date 2025-05-15

# Specify a custom output file
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --output my_timesheet.csv

# Enable debug logging
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --debug

# Specify a user prefix (for multi-user setups)
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --user JOHN_DOE

# Save raw JSON output (or set ENABLE_RAW_JSON=1 in your .env file)
python convert_harvest_json_to_csv.py --json harvest_data.json
```

### Command-Line Arguments

- `--from-date`: Start date for time entries (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `--to-date`: End date for time entries (YYYY-MM-DD)
- `--output`: Custom output file path for the CSV
- `--json`: Save raw API response as JSON to the specified file
- `--user`: Override the user prefix for environment variables
- `--debug`: Enable debug logging

### Expected Output

When running successfully, the script will:

1. Display a header with the application name and version
2. Show user information and configuration details
3. Download time entries from Harvest with a progress indicator
4. Process and validate the data using Pydantic models
5. Write the processed data to a CSV file (in the `output/` subdirectory by default)
6. Optionally upload to Google Sheets if configured

### Output File Locations

By default, output files will be stored in the following locations:

- **CSV files**: `./output/harvest_export_[prefix].csv`
- **JSON files** (if enabled): `./output/harvest_export_[prefix].json`
- **Log files**: Created in the current directory or specified log directory

In a Docker environment, these paths would be inside the container at `/app/output/` and `/app/logs/` according to the container configuration. All file paths in the scripts use absolute paths relative to `/app`.

All output is enhanced with Rich formatting for better readability in the terminal.

---

## How to Obtain API Credentials

### Harvest API Credentials
You will need the following for Harvest API access:
- `HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID`
- `HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN`
- `HARVEST_USER_AGENT`

**Steps:**
1. Log in to your Harvest account at [https://id.getharvest.com/](https://id.getharvest.com/).
2. Go to **Settings** > **Developers** > **Personal Access Tokens**.
3. Click **Create New Personal Access Token**.
4. Copy your **Account ID** and **Personal Access Token**.
5. Set your **User Agent** to your email address or app name (e.g., `user@email.com`).
6. Add these values to your `.env` file with your prefix (replace FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME with your actual name):
   ```env
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_ACCOUNT_ID=your_account_id
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_AUTH_TOKEN=your_personal_access_token
   FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME_HARVEST_USER_AGENT=your_email_or_app
   ```

**Official Docs:** [Harvest API Authentication](https://help.getharvest.com/api-v2/authentication-api/authentication/authentication/)

### Google Service Account Credentials (for Sheets Upload)
To upload to Google Sheets, you **must** use a Google Cloud Service Account (not an API key or OAuth client ID). The Service Account provides secure, automated server-to-server access.

> **Note:** Do NOT use an "API key" or "OAuth client ID" for this workflow. You need a downloaded Service Account JSON file.

**Steps to obtain Service Account credentials:**
1. Go to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
2. Create a new project (or select an existing one).
3. Enable the **Google Sheets API** for your project (APIs & Services > Library > search for "Google Sheets API" > Enable).
4. Go to **APIs & Services > Credentials**.
5. Click **Create Credentials > Service account**.
6. Fill in the Service account details:
    - **Service account name**: Choose a descriptive name (e.g., `sheets-writer`).
    - **Description**: (Optional) e.g., "Writes data to Google Sheets from Harvest script".
    - Click **Create and Continue**.
7. Assign a role to the service account:
    - Recommended: **Editor** or **Writer** (to allow writing to Sheets).
    - Click **Continue** and then **Done**.
8. After creation, click on your new service account in the list to view its details.
9. Go to the **Keys** tab, click **Add Key > Create new key**, select **JSON**, and download the key file.
10. In the Service account details, find the **Email** field (e.g., `sheets-writer@your-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com`).
11. **Share your Google Sheet with this service account email:**
    - Open your Google Sheet in the browser.
    - Click the **Share** button.
    - Add the service account email as an editor (full access is usually required for writing).
    - Click **Send**.
12. Open the downloaded JSON key file and copy the following fields to your `.env` file:
    - `project_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID`
    - `private_key_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID`
    - `private_key` → `GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY` (**replace all newlines with `\n` so it is a single line**)
    - `client_email` → `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL`
    - `client_id` → `GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID`
    - Add your `GOOGLE_SHEET_ID` and `GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME` as well.
    - Set `UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET=1` to enable uploads.

    Example `.env` entries:
    ```env
    GOOGLE_SA_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
    GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY_ID=your_private_key_id
    GOOGLE_SA_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
    GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_service_account_email
    GOOGLE_SA_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
    GOOGLE_SHEET_ID=your_sheet_id
    GOOGLE_SHEET_TAB_NAME=your_tab_name
    UPLOAD_TO_GOOGLE_SHEET=1
    ```
